Update 9 branch for V7 of autoupgrade module (#1943)
PrestaShop/docs: basics/keeping-up-to-date/_index.md

## Introduction

> This section provides best practices and tips for maintaining your PrestaShop store with the latest updates. Here, we explore various methods to keep your store current and secure.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section provides best practices and tips for maintaining your PrestaShop store with the latest updates. We'll explore various ways to keep your store up-to-date and secure.
```

## Why keeping your PrestaShop store up-to-date ?

> Regularly updating your store to the latest available version ensures that you benefit from the newest features and improvements from the core team and the developer community. Depending on the version you choose, updates bring a variety of advantages:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Regularly updating your store to the latest version ensures you benefit from the latest features, security enhancements, and performance improvements developed by the core team and the community. The advantages of updating depend on the version you choose:
```

> - **New Features:** Access the latest features and enhancements for an improved experience.
> - **Design & UX Improvements:** Enjoy updated themes and modernized user interfaces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **New features:** Access the latest features and enhancements for an improved experience.
- **Design & UX improvements:** Enjoy updated themes and modernized user interfaces.
```

Author: Done in v9

> - **Security Enhancements:** Protect your store with the latest security patches and performance updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Security and performance enhancements:** Protect your store with the latest security patches and performance updates.
```

Author: Done in v9

> - **Technical Compatibility:** Ensure compatibility with the latest technologies and updates.
> - **Ecosystem Growth:** Take advantage of new modules, themes, and their ongoing updates.
> - **Stability & Reliability:** Benefit from bug fixes and patches that enhance the stability of your store.
> - **Official Support:** Stay within the scope of officially supported PrestaShop versions and services.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Technical compatibility:** Ensure compatibility with the latest technologies and updates.
- **Ecosystem growth:** Take advantage of new modules, themes, and their ongoing updates.
- **Stability & reliability:** Benefit from bug fixes and patches that enhance the stability of your store.
- **Official support:** Stay within the scope of officially supported PrestaShop versions and services.
```

Author: Done in v9

## Update vs Migration: two distinct processes

Keeping PrestaShop up-to-date can be achieved through different methods. Choose the most suitable update process based on your specific needs.

### Updating PrestaShop

![Upgrade schema](img/upgrade-schema.png)

> Updating your store is the recommended approach when you want to stay up to date without switching to the next major version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updating your store is the recommended approach when you want to stay up-to-date without switching to the next major version.
```

Author: Done in v9

#### Impact on existing data

As long as you remain within the same major version (e.g., 8.0 → 8.1, 9.0 → 9.1), PrestaShop ensures that all existing features remain intact. This means:

- Your current theme and modules will continue to function as expected.
- No data or functionalities will be lost, even if database structures are modified.

> This stability is guaranteed by the <a href="https://semver.org/" target="_blank">semantic versioning</a> system we follow, which prevents any compatibility-breaking changes in minor and patch updates. Core features, APIs, and functionality remain unchanged outside of major releases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This stability is guided by the <a href="https://semver.org/" target="_blank">semantic versioning</a> system we follow, which aims to prevent compatibility-breaking changes in minor and patch updates. However, in rare cases, critical bug fixes or security patches may require adjustments that could affect compatibility. Outside of major releases, core features, APIs, and functionality generally remain stable.
```

#### Update process overview

1. **Download** the Update Assistant module, designed specifically for PrestaShop updates.
2. **Run the update** via the module’s web interface or using the Command-Line Interface (CLI).
3. **Enjoy your updated store** with the latest improvements and fixes.

For a detailed step-by-step guide, refer to the official documentation for the [Update Assistant module][1].

### Migrating PrestaShop

![Migration schema](img/migration-schema.png)

> Updating isn’t the only way to bring your store to the latest version of PrestaShop. In some cases, migrating your data is a better option.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Updating isn’t the only way to bring your store to the latest version of PrestaShop. In some cases, migrating your data could be a better option.
```

> Migration is recommended when switching to a new major version. Since major updates introduce significant core changes and potential incompatibilities with your current theme and modules, starting fresh ensures greater stability and reduces risks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Migration is recommended when switching to a new major version. Since major updates introduce significant core changes and potential incompatibilities with your current theme and modules, starting fresh ensures greater stability and reduces risks.
```

> Migration is recommended when switching to a new major version

it's just a side-note: that's a bit of a controversial statement and I always wanted to get rid off it, because:

> Since major updates introduce significant core changes and potential incompatibilities with your current theme and modules, starting fresh ensures greater stability and reduces risks.

that is not true, when you migrate the data, you most of the time migrate the data from native modules, if you have any third-party module you have to ensure the data migration from it to the new version, and often it is a blocking point for less technical users and it creates much more risks - hopefully we could be able to rework this and guide users through more challenging major to major updates, because they are possible and it is not that complicated to perform them if done correctly :)

Reviewer 2: Thanks @kpodemski We didn't touch this part, nor did we review the migration strategy. So we're not going to take on the responsibility of changing this part at this time. We are focusing on Update Assistant related topics

Reviewer 2: FYI @M0rgan01

Reviewer: @gericfo - of course, that's understandable

- **Theme**

If you are updating from PrestaShop 1.6, your theme will not be compatible with 1.7 and later versions. The theme system, controllers, and data structures have changed significantly. You will need to install a compatible theme for the new version.

- **Modules Compatibility**

While some modules are resilient to PrestaShop updates, others may be incompatible when switching to a new major version.

-&nbsp;For marketplace modules, check the compatibility range before reinstalling them.

-&nbsp;For custom-built modules, consult your developer to verify compatibility. As a rule of thumb, assume modules are incompatible until proven otherwise.

All reinstalled modules must be manually reconfigured on the new store.

#### Migration process overview

A successful migration follows these steps:

1. **Set up** a new store running the latest PrestaShop version.
2. **Extract** production data from the old store.
3. **Adapt** the data to meet compatibility requirements.
4. **Import** the data into the new store.

> For a detailed step-by-step guide, refer to the Migration Documentation (link to migration page).

Reviewer 3: Missing link?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a detailed step-by-step guide, refer to the [Migration Documentation][2].
```

## Read more

- {{< page-link "9/basics/keeping-up-to-date/update" >}}
- {{< page-link "9/basics/keeping-up-to-date/backup" >}}
- {{< page-link "9/basics/keeping-up-to-date/migration" >}}

> [1]: {{< relref "/9/basics/keeping-up-to-date/update" >}}

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[1]: {{< relref "/9/basics/keeping-up-to-date/update" >}}
[2]: {{< relref "/9/basics/keeping-up-to-date/migration" >}}
```
